---
layout: post
title: Summertime Vest
date: 2025-04-29
tags: [current_project, wearables]
---

sweater - sleeves = vest. I can do a vest. 


First, it would be difficult to argue that knitting is primarily a cold weather activity. Or, more accurately, knitwear is winter weather wear. Hats, gloves, scarves, socks, sweaters...all lend themselves to comfy cold weather apparel in soft woolens and acrylics. So am I just supposed to quit knitting now that it's getting warmer? NO. 

Second, the ultimate " I've made it " goal I set for myself at the start of this journey was to knit myself a sweater. And while I feel like that is still on the horizon, I think a good warm up round (one of many) is this [vest](https://www.ravelry.com/patterns/library/vacation-vest) I happened upon while scrolling through TikTok (knit-Tok?). The construction is less sweater vest or suit vest and more drapey, airy warm weather tie tank. Think this linen [piece from Target](https://www.target.com/p/women-s-linen-tie-v-neck-blouse-a-new-day/-/A-93341549?preselect=93194846#lnk=sametab). The Vacation Vest appears to be quite versatile, with finished pieces done in cotton, linen, and acrylic with an option to tie the front together or leave it open. 

My thinking with this piece is that 1) it'll be a good piece to learn sizing on and 2) my first non-accessory wearable that will be a challenge without having to get into sleeves, etc. Based on some perusing of several knitting blogs, popular summertime fibers to knit with are cotton, linen/silk blends, and Merino wool. Each fiber will impart a different vibe onto the piece (cotton holds its shape, wool drapes, linen is kind of in the middle but has a rougher texture). I think I want to give linen blend yarn a go (I'm very much on a linen clothing kick as of late) and I think it'll be a nice, airy fiber to work with. 

Here's to diving into summer with my first big project. I'll check back in when it's underway.

## Project Info: 
> Pattern: [Vacation Vest by Park & Knit](https://www.ravelry.com/patterns/library/vacation-vest)

> Yarn: [Line by Sandnes Garn](https://www.sandnes-garn.com/line), almond colorway, linen and cotton blend, worsted weight

> Needles: US 7 and 8 circular

> Misc: delight


---
## Update 5/7/2025

gauge gauge gauge


The yarn was delivered yesterday and it's immaculate. It's manufactured in Norway and the cotton/viscose/linen mix makes it really light and airy, so it feels much different than the wools and acrylics I've worked with before. 

As for the pattern, I was very intimidated by the length/detail of the instructions but I took the time to read through it beforehand and realized I can safely skip over nearly half since the pattern is extremely size inclusive (sizes XS - 5XL, corresponding to chest sizes of 34-66 inches). I'll be knitting according to the Medium size, as I measured my chest circumference to 39 inches and Medium is at 42 inches around. 

One of my major initial concerns is ensuring I stay faithful to the gauge of this work. I (for only the second time) knitted and blocked a gauge swatch to ensure I had the correct number of stitches per inch. Which I didn't. The pattern calls for 18 stitches per 4 inches, I had 18 stitches in 3.5 inches. Which means I need to cast on more stitches to get the correct width. BUT I did not like how loose this gauge ends up being. 18 worsted weight stitches per 4 inches == 4.5 stitches per inch which is just too loose for my taste. My vision for this vest is to wear it as a shirt, so minimizing see-through-ness while still maintaining the drapey/airy quality is the goal. So I've decided to go down 2 needle sizes which ends up improving the stitch tension so I end up with 9 stitches per 2 inches. 

I'm hoping to actually start on the piece today after yesterday's gauge bonanza - I'll check back in when there's any progress. Or hang ups. 

